CHAPTER VII
Then said the High Priest, Are these things so?
And he said, Men, brethren, and fathers, hearken!
The God of glory appeared unto our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia, before
he dwelt in Charon, and said unto him, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred,
and come into the land which I shall show thee.
Then came he out of the land of the Chaldeans, and dwelt in Charon, and from thence, when
his father was dead, he removed him into this land wherein ye now dwell.
And he gave him none inheritance in it, no, not so much as to set his foot on, yet he
would give it to him for a possession, and to his seed after him, when as yet he had
no child.
And God spake on this wise, that his seed should sojourn in a strange land, and that
they should bring them into bondage and entreat them evil four hundred years.
And the nation to whom they shall be in bondage will I judge, said God, and after that shall
they come forth and serve me in this place.
And he gave him the covenant of circumcision, and so Abraham begat Isaac and circumcised
him the eighth day, and Isaac begat Jacob, and Jacob begat the twelve patriarchs.
And the patriarchs, moved with envy, sold Joseph into Egypt, but God was with him and
delivered him out of all his afflictions, and gave him favor and wisdom in the sight
of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and he made him governor over Egypt and all his house.
Now there came a dearth over all the land of Egypt and Chanan, and great affliction,
and our fathers found no sustenance.
But when Jacob heard that there was corn in Egypt, he sent out our fathers first, and
at the second time Joseph was made known to his brethren, and Joseph's kindred was made
known unto Pharaoh.
Then sent Joseph, and called his father Jacob to him, and all his kindred, three score and
fifteen souls.
So Jacob went down into Egypt, and died, he and our fathers, and were carried over to
Secum, and laid in the sepulcher that Abraham bought for a sum of money of the sons of Amor,
the father of Secum.
But when the time of the promise drew nigh, which God had sworn to Abraham, the people
grew and multiplied in Egypt, till another king arose which knew not Joseph.
The same dealt subtly with our kindred, and evil entreated our fathers, so that they cast
out their young children, to the end they might not live.
In which time Moses was born, and was exceeding fair, and nourished up in his father's house
three months.
And when he was cast out, Pharaoh's daughter took him up, and nourished him for her own
son.
And Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and was mighty in words and
in deeds.
And when he was full forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brethren the children
of Israel.
And seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended him, and avenged him that was oppressed and
smote the Egyptian, for he supposed his brethren would have understood how that God by his
hand would deliver them, but they understood not.
And the next day he showed himself unto them as they strove, and would have set them at
one again, saying,
"'Sirs ye our brethren, why do ye wrong one to another?'
But he that did his neighbor wrong thrust him away, saying,
"'Who made thee a ruler and a judge over us?
Wilt thou kill me as thou didst the Egyptian yesterday?'
Then fled Moses at this saying, and was a stranger in the land of Median, where he beget
two sons.
And when forty years were expired, there appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai an
angel of the Lord in a flame of fire in a bush.
When Moses saw it, he wondered at the sight, and as he drew near to behold it, the voice
of the Lord came unto him, saying,
"'I am the God of thy fathers, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God
of Jacob.'
Then Moses trembled, and durst not behold.
Then said the Lord to him,
"'Put off thy shoes from thy feet, for the place where thou standest is holy ground.
I have seen, I have seen the affliction of my people, which is in Egypt, and I have heard
their groaning, and am come down to deliver them.
And now come, I will send thee into Egypt.'
This Moses whom they refused, saying,
Who made thee a ruler and a judge?
The same did God send to be a ruler and a deliverer by the hand of the angel which appeared
to him in the bush.
He brought them out, after that he had showed wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, and
in the Red Sea, and in the wilderness forty years.
This is that Moses which said unto the children of Israel,
"'A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you, of your brethren, like unto me,
him shall ye hear.'
This is he that was in the church in the wilderness with the angel which spake to him in the
Mount Sinai, and with our fathers, who received the lively oracles to give unto us, to whom
our fathers would not obey but thrust him from them, and in their hearts turned back
again into Egypt, saying unto Aaron, Make us gods to go before us, for as for this Moses
which brought us out of the land of Egypt, we want not what has become of him.'
And they made a calf in those days, and offered sacrifice unto the idol, and rejoiced in the
works of their own hands.
Then God turned and gave them up to worship the host of heaven, as it is written in the
Book of the Prophets, O ye house of Israel, have ye offered to me slain beasts and sacrifices
by the space of forty years in the wilderness?
Yea, ye took up the tabernacle of Moloch, and the star of your God Remphan, figures
which ye made to worship them.
And I will carry you away beyond Babylon.
Our fathers had the tabernacle of witness in the wilderness, as he had appointed, speaking
unto Moses, that he should make it according to the fashion that he had seen, which also
our fathers, that came after, brought in with Jesus into the possession of the Gentiles,
whom God drove out before the face of our fathers, unto the days of David, who found
favor before God, and desired to find a tabernacle for the God of Jacob.
But Solomon built him in house.
Howbeit the Most High dwelleth not in temples made with hands, as saith the prophet, Heaven
is my throne, and earth is my footstool.
What house will ye build me, saith the Lord, or what is the place of my rest?
Hath not my hand made all these things?
Ye stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost,
as your fathers did, so do ye.
Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted, and they have slain them which
showed before of the coming of the Just One, of whom ye have been now the betrayers and
murderers, who have received the law by the disposition of angels, and have not kept it?
When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed on him with
their teeth.
But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up steadfastly into heaven, and saw the glory
of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand of God, and said, Behold, I see the heavens
opened, and the Son of Man standing on the right hand of God.
Then they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped their ears, and ran upon him with
one accord, and cast him out of the city, and stoned him, and the witnesses laid down
their clothes at a young man's feet, whose name was Saul.
And they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.
And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge.
And when he had said this, he fell asleep.
CHAPTER VIII.
And Saul was consenting unto his death, and at that time there was a great persecution
against the church which was at Jerusalem, and they were all scattered abroad throughout
the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.
And devout men carried Stephen to his burial, and made great lamentation over him.
As for Saul, he made havoc of the church, entering into every house, and howling men
and women committed them to prison.
Therefore, they that were scattered abroad went everywhere preaching the word.
Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached Christ unto them.
And the people, with one accord, gave heed unto those things which Philip spake, hearing
and seeing the miracles which he did.
For unclean spirits, crying with loud voice, came out of many that were possessed with
them, and many taken with palsies, and that were lame, were healed.
And there was great joy in that city.
But there was a certain man, called Simon, which before time in the same city used sorcery,
and bewitched the people of Samaria, giving out that himself was some great one, to whom
they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the great power
of God.
And to him they had regard, because that of long time he had bewitched them with sorceries.
But when they believed Philip, preaching the things concerning the kingdom of God, and
the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized both men and women.
Then Simon himself believed also.
And when he was baptized, he continued with Philip, and wondered, beholding the miracles
and signs which were done.
Now when the apostles which were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of
God, they sent unto them Peter and John, who, when they were come down, prayed for them,
that they might receive the Holy Ghost, for as yet he was fallen upon none of them, only
they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Then laid they their hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost.
And when Simon saw that through laying on of the apostles hands the Holy Ghost was given,
he offered them money, saying, Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay hands,
he may receive the Holy Ghost.
But Peter said unto him, Thy money perish with thee, because thou hast thought that
the gift of God may be purchased with money.
Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter, for thy heart is not right in the sight of
God.
Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray God if perhaps the thought of thine heart
may be forgiven thee, for I perceive that thou art in the gall of bitterness and in
the bond of iniquity.
Then answered Simon and said, Pray ye to the Lord for me, that none of these things which
ye have spoken come upon me.
And they, when they had testified and preached the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem
and preached the gospel in many villages of the Samaritans.
And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise and go toward the south unto
the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is desert.
And he arose and went.
And behold, a man of Ethiopia, and eunuch of great authority under Candace, queen of
the Ethiopians, who had the charge of all her treasure and had come to Jerusalem for
to worship, was returning and sitting in his chariot read Isaias the prophet.
Then the spirit said unto Philip, Go near and join thyself to this chariot.
And Philip ran thither to him and heard him read the prophet Isaias, and said, Understandest
thou what thou readest?
And he said, How can I except some man should guide me?
And he desired Philip that he would come up and sit with him.
The place of the scripture which he read was this, He was led as a sheep to the slaughter,
and like a lamb done before his shearer, so opened he not his mouth.
In his humiliation his judgment was taken away, and who shall declare his generation,
for his life is taken from the earth.
And the eunuch answered Philip, and said, I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet this,
of himself or of some other man?
Then Philip opened his mouth, and began at the same scripture, and preached unto him Jesus.
And as they went on their way, they came unto a certain water.
And the eunuch said, See, here is water, what doth hinder me to be baptized?
And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart, thou mayest.
And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.
And he commanded the chariot to stand still, and they went down both into the water,
both Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.
And when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip,
that the eunuch saw him no more, and he went on his way rejoicing.
But Philip was found at Azotes, and passing through,
he preached in all the cities, till he came to Caesarea.